# Satellite-based-Poverty-Estimation
Estimating Expenditure-based Poverty using Satellite Images

Poverty is a global-scale problem that concerns all countries, including Indonesia. Poverty, in a socio-economic context, is defined as the inability of a person of a household to meet their primary needs, i.e., clothing, shelter, and food. United Nations is committed to eradicating poverty by 2030, as stated in the first goals of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Relevant data is needed to implement policies related to poverty eradication. There are five approaches to collecting poverty data: the financial approach, basic needs approach, capabilities approach, social exclusion approach, and rights approach. Most countries use household income or consumption as the basis for determining the welfare of the poor. Unfortunately, timely and reliable data collection is difficult and expensive because it requires detailed data collection directly from individuals and households.

New sources of potential data have emerged to estimate poverty, such as mobile phone data or satellite imagery. Recent developments in machine learning-based methods have enabled an intensive approach to measuring various poverty indicators. Satellite images comes in two forms, daytime satellite images and nighttime images. Daytime satellite images have a higher image resolution than nighttime satellite images. They provide plenty of helpful information in the form of colors and patterns. The approach taken in this work is replicated and modified from Jean's study (2016). This approach uses the Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) to determine the relationship between day and night satellite imagery. The CNN architecture used was retrained (fine-tuned) to predict the intensity of night light according to the input of daytime satellite imagery.

Using the Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) and different regression models, we wish to estimate the per capita expenditure of 40 regencies in Central Java and the Special Region of Yogyakarta. While fine-tuning VGG16, we also reduce the last fully connected layer to 32 nodes to avoid the curse of dimensionality. Since the data extracted from satellite images are not interpretable, we use Support Vector Regression (SVR), Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost), and Random Forest. Out of the five poverty measurement approaches, the consumption expenditure-based monetary approach is the most appropriate response variable because only the residence dimension can be captured by satellite imagery. By using only public, accessible, and quickly updated data, the results of this study are expected to provide a grim picture but provide up-to-date information in mapping the level of per capita expenditure.
